# Understanding the CalculiX FEA Process

In this folder is an example of a static step analysis implemented into CaluliX

# The input file or filename.inp
This file is the one of the two most important part of the CalculiX solver process, as it defines the entire analysis you'll be working, aka your virtual test bench.
It is decomposed in several parts:
- The node coordinates of your model
- The type of mesh elements you've chosen(tetrahedron, hexahedron...)
- The dimension of the mesh elements(3D, 2D or 1D)
- The type of FEM element type (solid, shell, beam, fluid...)
- The node sets receving constraints
- The material of the model
- The type of section, if necessary
- The step(s)

Let's break this all down!

# The node coordinates of your model

This defines the global cartesian coordinates of every single point of your mesh.
In FreeCAD, this process is automated by the ... function, in the ... module.

# The type of mesh elements you've chosen(tetrahedron, hexahedron...), dimension of the mesh elements(3D, 2D or 1D) and type of FEM element type (solid, shell, beam, fluid...)

This part requires some understanding of your model and the simplifications you can apply to it. By default, stick to 3D Solid Tetrahedron, or TYPE=C3D10 in the CCX inp file, as it the baseline for any element in the real world.  

Shell elements are useful when dealing with...
Beam elements, on the other hand,...

If you want further information, fell free to dive deeper into the CGX and CCX manual, page 130 in CGX and page 88 in CCX for element types, page 386 for inp definition in CCX.

# The node sets receving constraints

This group nodes that correspond to the constraints defined by the user.
In FreeCAD, this process is automated by the ... function, in the ... module.
In PrePromax, this process is automated by ?

# The material of the model

This defines the working material defined by the user for the model.

# 











The input file or any file file with the .inp extension
The application that runs and processes that input file
The post-processing, or result, files that comes in a variety of forms, but the .frd and .dat files are what interest us for now
The .inp file is generated by FreeCAD quite well, but the functionnalities are limited to static analysis , which is not to interesting, so go to the inp writer README and python to understand what needs to be changed to stick to our problem.

For the second part, I'm trying to understand how to save each step in the memory, if it possible, so we can run Calculix dynamicaly for the step by step analysis.

For the post processing part, I recommend using PreProMax, as it can animate each increment of each step into a movie so you can witness firstand the result.
